+++ 
date = 2026-01-24T10:10:07+08:00
title = "Preface and notations"
categories = ["交换代数"]
series = ["Solutions to Atiyah-MacDonald Commutative Algebra"]
+++

This is a copy of the series [Solutions to Atiyah-MacDonald Commutative Algebra](https://www.zhihu.com/column/c_1745120001231761408), but in English. I suppose a personal blog is a good place for collecting various solutions previously posted on different platforms. This can also serve as a review of commutative algebra. Of course, the main reason of writing these is that I have absolutely nothing to do over the winter vacation.

---

All rings are by default commutative and include the multiplication unit unless explicitly stated otherwise. The notations are consistent with those in the book. Here are a few of them that might confuse you:

- The radical of an ideal $\mathfrak{a}$ is denoted $r(\mathfrak{a})$.
- The Jacobson radical (intersection of all maximal ideals) and nilradical (intersection of all prime ideals) of a ring $A$ are denoted $\mathfrak{R}_A$ and $\mathfrak{N}_A$.
- For a homomorphism $f:A\to B$ and ideals $\mathfrak{a}\subseteq A$, $\mathfrak{b}\subseteq B$, we have the extension $\mathfrak{a}^e:=f(\mathfrak{a})B$ (the ideal generated by the image of $\mathfrak{a}$) and contraction $\mathfrak{b}^c:=f^{-1}(\mathfrak{b})$. Taking contraction induces the functorial $f^*:\operatorname{Spec}B\to\operatorname{Spec}A$.
- For a ring $A$ and its prime ideal $\mathfrak{p}$, we can define the multiplicative subset $S_\mathfrak{p}=A\backslash\mathfrak{p}$; for an element $f\in A$ we can also define a multiplicative subset $S_f=\{f^n\}_{n \ge 0}$. Either way, the corresponding localization ring is denoted $A_\bullet:=S_\bullet^{-1}A$.
- Under a homomorphism $f:A\to B$, for any $A$-module we can define a $B$-module $B\otimes_A M$ which is denoted $M_B$. Every $B$-module is also naturally an $A$-module, but the notation stays the same.

Note: in some of the solutions, I use Propositions, Corollary, and Exercises in the book. I will also refer to other exercises, in the same chapter or not. The reader should distinguish by themselves between the exercises and Exercises (e.g. Exercise 1.12: $\mathfrak{a}\subseteq(\mathfrak{a}:\mathfrak{b})$ etc.) in the book.

Many of the solutions are copied from elsewhere. They mainly come from [jeffrey daniel kasik carlson](https://spaces.ac.cn/usr/uploads/2017/07/4208763092.pdf), [Adam allen](https://www.doc88.com/p-966196453689.html), and [Papaioannou](https://www.doc88.com/p-68939062147474.html). Please kindly report any mistake you see.

Another note: I also use github copilot's auto completion sometimes, which may (I hope not) steal other people's codes without consent here. Please contact me if you have any suspicions.

---

The book is available [here](/blog/books/Atiyah-MacDonald-Introduction-to-Commutative-Algebra.pdf).