+++
date = '2026-03-22T15:30:58+08:00'
title = "11. Dimension Theory"
categories = ["交换代数"]
series = ["Solutions to Atiyah-MacDonald Commutative Algebra"]
+++

You may want to see [this](../am0/) for unclear notations.

---

{{<exercise 1>}}
Let $f\in k[x_1,\ldots,x_n]$ be an irreducible polynomial over an algebraically closed field $k$. A point $P$ on the variety $f(x)=0$ is *non-singular* $\Leftrightarrow$ not all the partial derivatives $\partial f/\partial x_i$ vanish at $P$. Let $A=k[x_1,\ldots,x_n]/(f)$, and let $\mathfrak{m}$ be the maximal ideal of $A$ corresponding to the point $P$. Prove that $P$ is non-singular $\Leftrightarrow$ the local ring $A_{\mathfrak{m}}$ is a regular local ring.\
[By (11.18) we have $\dim A_\mathfrak{m}=n-1$. Now \[\mathfrak{m}/\mathfrak{m}^2\simeq (x_1,\ldots,x_n)/((x_1,\ldots,x_n)^2+(f))\] and has dimension $n-1$ if and only if $f\not\in (x_1,\ldots,x_n)^2$.]
QUESTIONANDANSWERSTRING\
Without loss of generality assume $P$ is the origin, then by the hint $A_\mathfrak{m}$ regular if and only if $f\not\in (x_1,\ldots,x_n)^2$ {{<explain>}}as $\dim (x_1,\ldots,x_n)/(x_1,\ldots,x_n)^2=n${{</explain>}}, which is equivalent to saying $P$ is non-singular.
{{</exercise>}}

{{<exercise 2>}}
In (11.21) assume that $A$ is complete. Prove that the homomorphism $k[[t_1,\ldots,t_d]]\to A$ given by $t_i\mapsto x_i~(1\le i\le d)$ is injective and that $A$ is a finitely generated module over $k[[t_1,\ldots,t_d]]$. [Use (10.24).]
QUESTIONANDANSWERSTRING\
The topology on $A$ defined by $\mathfrak{q}=(x_1,\ldots,x_d)$ is the same as the $\mathfrak{m}$-adic topology. Corollary 11.21 says $k[t_1,\ldots,t_d]\to A$ is injective, and by Corollary 10.3 making completions on both sides proves injectivity.\
For finiteness, it suffices to prove $G_\mathfrak{q}(A)$ is a finitely generated $G_{(t_1,\ldots,t_d)}(k[[t_1,\ldots,t_d]])$-module by Proposition 10.24. But $G_{(t_1,\ldots,t_d)}(k[[t_1,\ldots,t_d]])\simeq k[t_1,\ldots,t_d]$ by Proposition 10.22, on which $G_\mathfrak{q}(A)$ is obviously generated by the $x_i$, hence finitely.
{{</exercise>}}

{{<exercise 3>}}
Extend (11.25) to non-algebraically-closed fields. [If $\overline{k}$ is the algebraic closure of $k$, then $\overline{k}[x_1,\ldots,x_n]$ is integral over $k[x_1,\ldots,x_n]$.]
QUESTIONANDANSWERSTRING\
By Chapter 5, Exercise 16, the coordinate ring $A(V)$ of any variety $V$ is integral on some polynomial subring $B=k[x_1,\ldots,x_{\dim V}]$. Then $C=\overline{k}[x_1,\ldots,x_n]$ is integral over $B$, hence every maximal ideal of $B$ can be extended to a maximal ideal of $C$. Take any maximal ideal $\mathfrak{m}$ of $A(V)$, then $\mathfrak{m}^c$ is maximal in $B$ {{<explain>}}Corollary 5.8{{</explain>}}, take its extension $\mathfrak{n}$ in $C$, then by the original Theorem 11.25 (and Lemma 11.26), $\dim A(V)_\mathfrak{m}=\dim B_{\mathfrak{m}^c}=\dim C_\mathfrak{n}=\dim V$ {{<explain>}}The dimension of $V$ as a variety on $k$ and the same defining relations on $\overline{k}$ is obviously the same, because transcendence degree is preserved under $\otimes_k\overline{k}${{</explain>}}.
{{</exercise>}}

{{<exercise 4>}}
An example of a Noetherian domain of infinite dimension (Nagata). Let $k$ be  field and let $A=k[x_1,x_2,\ldots,x_n,\ldots]$ be a polynomial ring over $k$ in a countably infinite set of indeterminates. Let $m_1,m_2,\ldots$ be an increasing sequence of positive integers such that $m_{i+1}-m_i>m_i-m_{i-1}$ for all $i>1$. Let $\mathfrak{p}_i=(x_{m_i+1},\ldots,x_{m_{i+1}})$ and let $S$ be the complement in $A$ of the union of the ideals $\mathfrak{p}_i$.\
Each $\mathfrak{p}_i$ is a prime ideal and therefore the set $S$ is multiplicatively closed. The ring $S^{-1}A$ is Noetherian by Chapter 7, Exercise 9. Each $S^{-1}\mathfrak{p}_i$ has height equal to $m_{i+1}-m_i$, hence $\dim S^{-1}A=\infty$.
{{</exercise>}}

{{<exercise 5>}}
Reformulate (11.1) in terms of the Grothendieck group $K(A_0)$ (Chapter 7, Exercise 25). {{<explain>}}This is a strange exercise and is omitted.{{</explain>}}
{{</exercise>}}

{{<exercise 6>}}
Let $A$ be a ring (not necessarily Noetherian). Prove that \[1+\dim A\le \dim A[x] \le 1+2\dim A.\] [Let $f:A\to A[x]$ be the embedding and consider the fiber of $f^*:\operatorname{Spec}(A[x])\to \operatorname{Spec}(A)$ over a prime ideal $\mathfrak{p}$ of $A$. This fiber can be identified with the spectrum of $k\otimes_AA[x]\simeq k[x]$, where $k$ is the residue field at $\mathfrak{p}$ (Chapter 3, Exercise 21), and $\dim k[x]=1$. Now use Exercise 7(ii) of Chapter 4.]
QUESTIONANDANSWERSTRING\
The first inequality is by lifting $\mathfrak{p}_i$ to $\mathfrak{p}_i[x]$ and adding $\mathfrak{p}_r+(x)$ at the end. The second inequality is by the hint.
{{</exercise>}}

{{<exercise 7>}}
Let $A$ be a Noetherian ring. Then \[\dim A[x]=1+\dim A,\] and hence, by induction on $n$, \[\dim A[x_1,\ldots,x_n]=n+\dim A\] [Let $\mathfrak{p}$ be a prime ideal of height $m$ in $A$. Then there exist $a_1,\ldots,a_m\in\mathfrak{p}$ such tht $\mathfrak{p}$ is a minimal prime ideal belonging to the ideal $\mathfrak{a}=(a_1,\ldots,a_n)$. By Exercise 7 of Chapter 4, $\mathfrak{p}[x]$ is a minimal prime ideal of $\mathfrak{a}[x]$ and therefore height $\mathfrak{p}[x]\le m$. On the other hand, a chain of prime ideals $\mathfrak{p}_0\subset\mathfrak{p}_1\subset\cdots\subset\mathfrak{p}_m=\mathfrak{p}$ gives rise to a chain $\mathfrak{p}_0[x]\subset\cdots\subset\mathfrak{p}_m[x]=\mathfrak{p}[x]$, hence height $\mathfrak{p}[x]\ge m$. Hence height $\mathfrak{p}[x]=$ height $\mathfrak{p}$. Now use the argument of Exercise 6.]
QUESTIONANDANSWERSTRING\
By the hint, the height of $\mathfrak{p}[x]$ is the same as that of $\mathfrak{p}$. For a maximal chain $\mathfrak{q}_0\subset\cdots\subset\mathfrak{q}_r$ in $A[x]$, we must have $\mathfrak{q}_0=\mathfrak{q}_0^c[x]$ by maximality, hence we can take the maximal number $n$ such that $\mathfrak{q}_n=\mathfrak{q}_n^c[x]$. Notice that $\mathfrak{q}_i^c=\mathfrak{q}_{i+1}^c\Rightarrow\mathfrak{q}_i=\mathfrak{q}_i^c[x]$, hence we must have \[\mathfrak{q}_n^c\subseteq\mathfrak{q}_{n+1}^c\subsetneq\mathfrak{q}_{n+2}^c\subsetneq\cdots\subsetneq\mathfrak{q}_r^c\] the height of $\mathfrak{q}_n^c$ is that of $\mathfrak{q}_n$, i.e. $n$, hence $n+(r-n-1)\le\dim A$, which gives $r\le 1+\dim A$. Exercise 6 forces them to be equal.
{{</exercise>}}
